Many of the Power MBAs already have entrepreneurial projects.
In different situations, there are people who have just started and there are people who have raised
some money.
The issue is that we see that almost all entrepreneurs, not only Power MBAs,
but in general, are making the mistake that we have warned a thousand times.
We have talked a thousand times about this, but it is because it is necessary.
And it is that they are pushing their value proposition without having reached Product Market Fit.
We also called it, remember, scaling prematurely.
We are seeing that many Power MBAs with entrepreneurial projects that have not yet
kicked, are worrying about things that are not important.
Well, like making a business plan, or making a canvas, or making a pitch deck, or looking for
suppliers, or looking for financing from the beginning, or partners, or they are worried about marketing,
making noise...
All that is pushing something that you have not yet validated.
And this, which I have explained many times, what leads you is to have mediocre results.
It's like, this example that I like so much, it's like if we stop the development, the learning
of a child when he is 8 years old.
Well, that's what's going to happen.
When you have already reached Product Market Fit, when you bill millions, what you have
to do, the next challenge, is the phase of Growth or Scaling.
In which, what you are going to do is, that model that you have validated, that exact model,
value proposition, segment of clients, channels, everything absolutely optimized, the only thing
you have to do is repeat it.
When you are in that phase, it may be that you find that you no longer have to continue
innovating, because you have come up with something that is very powerful and what you have to do
is scale it as fast as possible.
But how many people are in that situation?
Very few people are in that situation.
And until you get to Product Market Fit, what you have to do is not worry about those
things we have seen before, what you have to do is keep looking, which is something we
learn in Power Launch Formula.
Search and search, evolve your value proposition as many times as necessary, explore new segments
of clients, new channels, search and search and search until everything fits.
So if you have a project going, what I'm going to do is ask you a series of questions,
of reflections, and you will come to the conclusion yourself.
First, have you reached Product Market Fit?
Regardless of whether you have reached it or not, I would like you to answer this question,
what are you doing?
What are you worried about?
What are you?
Worrying about pushing it, about marketing, about the providers, about the partners?
Or are you just doing the important thing, which is to look for, to evolve your proposal,
look for segments of clients to reach Product Market Fit?
There are people who know a lot and say, until you reach Product Market Fit, all you have
to do is look for Product Market Fit.
So answer this question, what are you doing?
Are you worrying about the important things or not?
Another basic question, could you describe your customer?
You would know how to give us a very convincing answer of who they are, but not who they are
because you want to sell them to them, who they are because you have empirically validated
that those customer people buy you or want to buy you.
Can you explain to me how they are?
Or more importantly, can you explain to me why they buy you or why they buy you?
Have they told you with their own words?
Could you explain to me what hurts them?
If they see that your value proposal gives solution to those problems they have, do you know the
words they use to explain what happens to them?
Do you know the words they use to explain the value they see in your proposal?
You have to know all this before building your product, because your value proposal
will help you a lot.
So if you have already started to invest time and money in creating a value proposal or
creating an MVP, rather the first version of your product, without understanding everything
before, I recommend that you rethink things, I recommend that you work on the bases of
your business, which are none other than your client, understand your clients very well.
And I ask you another question, is it possible that you have already started, which is the first
thing that is usually done, to create your product, and your product is made up of, your
value proposal is made up of a series of things, of functionalities, characteristics, call it
whatever you want.
Well, I'm going to ask you a question, why have you decided to incorporate those characteristics?
Because you think that is what you have to do or because you have validated one by one that
each of those characteristics provides a value, the clients know how to explain it to you,
they have verbalized it.
If so, great, if not, if what you are doing is giving assumptions,
that you know that you are taking a huge risk.
To finish, we are going to give you some advice, something that we repeat a lot, but it is that in what
we truly believe, and that is that if you have an entrepreneurial project, but you have not reached
product market fit and therefore you are not in the growth or scaling phase, what you have to do
is have your mind very open and you have to keep looking, you have to evolve your value proposal,
iterate, pivot your business model as many times as necessary until you reach product
market fit.
Why?
Because when you reach product market fit and everything fits, I assure you that everything
will be much easier for you, you will grow a lot, the marketing will be
very easy to do, you will earn a lot more money, you will have the bases to build a successful model.